All right.
So in almost increasing sequence what we're going to have here is an array of values such as one three
to one array of integers to what we're going to say is a number it's almost increasing if the array
goes from left to right and is constantly increasing.
Or it can have one mistake right.
So in our in our example here one 3 that's our first mistake in two is the second mistake or first mistake
and that's the one it's the second mistake while 1 3 2 is a true statement because it only goes in a
in a incorrect sequence one single time.
Hence the almost increasing sequence.
I don't really have any methods for you to reference here this is pretty much pure logic.
Let's get started.
OK so the way that I solve this is I created a count variable that's going to store how many times numbers
are out of sync really at the end of the day and we'll we'll go ahead and just initialize it we initialize
it to 0 and the end here is what we're expecting is a boolean value we want to return if Count will
return true if count is less than or equal to one meaning if it's 0 it passes.
If it's one it's fasces if two or more items are out of sync then it is not an almost increasing sequence.
So now that we know our condition.
Now all we have to do is iterate through the array and understand situations where when we iterate through
if we're going to have an issue with the number order so we can do this.
We're going to do it at a normal for loop because the logic here it's just easier and we want to easily
have access to the index value.
So we're in sequence length
faffing that Susan plus plus we want to go through every iteration here.
Now what we're are we're in at two nested if statements.
The first ones to say hey if sequence II is less than or equal to sequence I'm on this one.
If that is a true statement meaning that the the value after it is the the second value is less than
the first value in order we want to go ahead and add 1 Dickau.
Now after this we're going to do another nested IF here because it is a almost increasing sequence so
what that basically means is that we need to check if this if two values back is less than that value.
And the one value ahead is less than the one value behind because if it is that's our second item there
that's going to break the count because we're giving it one pass not two.
And it's it's a little bit wonky when you look at it and it took me a second to figure it out on my
own about the math.
But we're saying hey is our current value that we're checking also also
less than two values before that.
You know is is are one less than 2 or excuse me these are two less than 1.
In this case.
Are looking at this first one.
If that's a true statement and the sequence
of the II plus 1 is less than or equal to the sequence of minus 1.
We can just go ahead and return false because we've already hit our double count at this point.
There's really no there's no reason to do another generation.
And you know it's better practice not to at this point.
The hardest part was probably for me at least just sort of visualizing why I would do this just because
it could be in a world where let's say this is three and then this is one.
This actually fails right.
Because then even if this is true because this value here is equal this value here there they haven't
made that correlation where we're saying it's almost increase.
And that doesn't mean that it's just the next door neighbor.
We can skip one time.
It needs to be valid for all of them which is why we do this check here.